>> Jem Young: So let's break it down,
let's start with the headers.
>> Jem Young: What is a header?
Or what is your take on what
a header is and what it does?
>> Speaker 2: Metadata
[INAUDIBLE] the request.
>> Jem Young: Sorry?
>> Speaker 2: Give some metadata.
>> Jem Young: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE] request or
the response.
>> Jem Young: Yeah, or we said packets
are made up of data and then metadata?
Part of that meta data is the header,
and the header is something really,
really interesting that we all
probably use at some point but
we don't think about what it's doing.
And the great thing about this metadata
is it can tell a lot about like where
the request has come
from besides just the IP.
It tells what kind of encoding it has,
what kind of content it has,
it actually has so much information
that we can pack and unload.
And you can understand how that request
is formed and where it came from, and
we can attach information along the path.
In fact, I can attach headers or something
that Nginx will read, just for Nginx, it
strips it out and then it goes to Express,
then Express will read his own headers,
maybe pass that data along something
else but it strips out another header.
So along the way we can add information or
subtract information,
that's what headers are really good for.
Do you have a question?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, I think that like the
writing on the outside of the envelope,
because the packets or the content, and
then the headers are the part that you can
inspect without having
to look at the contents.
>> Jem Young: Exactly, and
I love the envelope metaphor, again,
who created that?
I thought it was me, no,
[LAUGH] it's exactly that,
it's all this information about where
a destination is going, where it's from,
what kind of encoding it's using,
what kind of encoding it's accepted.
And based on if it's a request, so
that's something going to the server or
the response something
coming out of the server,
changes what kind of headers we're looking
for, what kind of headers we're gonna set.
So here I highlighted some
of the common headers,
the host header you
probably are familiar with,
it tells request where it's going and
what's the destination.
Host is really interesting because part of
it is what Nginx reads to route request to
their correct server.
Remember earlier how we
spoke about virtual hosts,
how I can have multiple servers?
Part of how Nginx determines where it's
trying to go is reading the header, here.
And I think headers are really, really
powerful and underrated, we probably don't
think that much about how that data is
formed and what it's been used for.
But in this case, Nginx is reading it,
Express doesn't care anything about it.
In fact, I can take out the host header,
and it would still work, but
you'd run into some issues.
And funny enough, I can proxy requests,
remember what a proxy is?
We defined it earlier.
>> Jem Young: Anybody, tell me?
Nobody remembered?
Yes?
>> Speaker 4: It's when you have a server
that represents multiple different
endpoints behind it, and
it reroutes and redirects based on,
in this case, the reverse proxy.
>> Jem Young: Exactly, exactly right.
Funny enough, there are certain headers
that are unmodifiable by the client, and
the host header is one of them.
I cannot fake where my request came from,
browsers don't allow that generally.
So if you have a service worker and you're
trying to use a service worker as a proxy,
I should step back.
Does anybody know what
a service worker is?
You've heard the phrase, it's a persistent
web worker that runs in a separate thread,
and when the tab is closed,
it can still run in the background.
It's a way of intercepting
network requests, essentially,
it can do other things, too.
And there's a good course on FrontEnd
Masters on service workers taught by
somebody, I forget who.
>> Speaker 5: Kyle Simpson.
>> Jem Young: Kyle Simpson, yeah, and
he's brilliant, so take that course.
But a service worker, one of the things I
tried to do early on was I tried to create
out a proxy in the client, so
that based on what the request is trying
to do it proxy the different servers.
And I found out you couldn't do it because
I can't modify the host header, I can't
modify where that packet is supposed to
go once the request has gone in flight.
Where in fact you might run into if
you start messing with headers and
service workers,
user agent is the next one.
What does the user agent?
I promise you if your web developer
you've heard the phrase before,
what's the user agent header?
>> Speaker 6: A browser,
information general?
>> Jem Young: Yeah.
>> Speaker 7: Yeah, what kind of
computer you own, that kind of stuff.
>> Jem Young: Yeah, do you ever
wonder why they look like this?
This weird mishmash of things?
I always have, it comes from the early
days when there weren't many,
there was one browser that's well
supported, and that was Internet Explorer,
and that was the cutting edge.
Do you have a question?
>> Speaker 8: Is it versioning?
Is that what the numbers are?
>> Jem Young: Part of it is versioning,
but
the reason why it's this kind of alphabet
soup of different types, [INAUDIBLE] HTML,
which we haven't used in a long,
long time, like Gecko, the old engine.
It was because browsers were, hey,
I'm a modern engine, but I'm not
Internet Explorer, and a lot of sites
were only built for Internet Explorer,
we're Mozilla, or Safari, or
something like that, so they faked it.
They put Mozilla in the header, even
though, in this case, this was a Chrome
browser, but it still says Mozilla 5.0
because it's trying to fake itself.
And because the web is backwards
compatible, they kept it, and
it just keeps getting longer and longer,
and no one company has ever said, hey,
we're gonna fix this today, we're
gonna fix this because now there's so
many different browsers and no one would
agree on what the user agent looks like.
But really the user agent is we use it to
inspect what version of browser we're on,
so what features are supported and
what type of browser it is basically.
Generally, you're gonna use some sort of
library parts of your user agent because
these are generally unreadable, like I
pulled this from Google Chrome browser.
But like it'd be very difficult
to tell which browser it was,
is it Chrome, is it Safari, is it Mozilla?
No one knows, so use a library if
you're trying to sniff user agents.
But again, it's good for a feature
support, so if I wanna turn on like top
level async await which V8 now supports
but it's not supporting other browsers.
I already use some sort of user
agent sniffing or other methods.
Accept is just saying, as a browser,
what sort of things can I
receive back from the server?
Because not all web browsers
support all the same protocols, but
the accept header is usually
generated by the browser itself.
And it just says, hey, you know what
I'll take HTML in that text format,
and we use that for
different types, we use that for
different types of supportive formats,
we move down to the accepting coding.
That just means this browser accepts these
gzip encoding so Nginx will say, hey,
I've got a request here and
it'll actually take gzips on the way out,
I'm gonna gzip that up because
I know Azure can handle that.
Whereas back in the day not
every browser support the gzip,
in this case, because I'm using Chrome as
this user agent, it also accepts probably,
which we talked about earlier as
a alternative compression format invented,
I wanna say in Switzerland,
yes, invented in Switzerland.
Why do I know that?
Cuz I was in Switzerland, and I was like
probably, and actually means little bread.
Good, you learn all sorts of things
not just Fast and Furious trivia, but
it's a different encoding format, but it's
just saying, hey, if Nginx, or Apache, or
whatever web server using, supports
probably, my browser will accept it too.
And it's really nice, cuz it's a way of
like falling back to different things.
And again,
all this is contained in the header,
like all this metadata
about the request itself.
And of course, except languages, what sort
of languages am I expecting to get back?
These are generally auto populated by the
browser, and whatever language you've said
in the browser or your operating system
>> Jem Young: And
I'm just going over some of
the common headers you'll run into,
the one I didn't talk about was
Set-cookie which sets cookies.
Why are cookies kind of
important to the web?
>> Jem Young: Or
should I say what is a cookie?
Yeah?
>> Speaker 7: It's a piece of metadata,
but it goes on every subsequent request.
And it can be inspected and
kinda managed on the server side too.
>> Jem Young: Exactly, it's a persistent
bit of text data that persists on
the browser,
depending on if it's a session cookie,
meaning the minute you close a tab or
the browser, it's gonna be erased, or
a regular cookie,
which will persist over time.
And it will expire whenever you
set the expire on the cookie tool.
But why is the cookie important?
In fact, it's crucial to the web,
like we couldn't we couldn't
operate a web without cookies.
Anybody, [INAUDIBLE], Tanner?
>> Speaker 8: [INAUDIBLE] let's you
bring data between sessions and
like let's you extend the user
experience across different sessions.
>> Jem Young: Exactly, there's something
we don't think about as what developers,
is that the internet is stateless,
every request and response is a brand new
request and response the server doesn't
remember that you've been here or not.
Versus say other programming paradigms,
where there's a state and
then whenever the user goes
away that state is gone.
The web is stateless, it's something
we don't think about that it exists,
so we need cookies versus this data over
time so that we know that a request,
say the person is logged in or they're
logged out, or I accept cookie banner
that we all have to do now because
of regulations or things like that.
The danger with cookies and
I'm glad you brought that up, Kayla,
is that cookies persist over every
single request unless you expire them.
And the bad thing about that is you
can make a really simple request,
like I want a 2 kilobyte HTML page,
10 kilobytes, if
you put a lot of cookies in there, because
they're sent on every single request.
So if I to tip is web developers and
full stack engineers,
be careful the amount of cookies you send,
and don't add too much data in there,
because it's gonna get sent
on every single request and
you're just adding overhead, and
you're making your connection slower.
The final type of common header I
wanna talk about, there are lots and
lots of headers, I'm just touching
on a few of them, is the X header.
X is a general guideline on
how to set custom headers, so
if you're like I wanna set
a Jem is the best header,
I would use X dot Jem Is the best header
and put whatever sort of data you want.
And using custom headers is a good way
of sending one-time custom data that we
don't necessarily want a payload but
we wanna be decrypted by the browser.
It's something you've probably seen,
if you probably seen X something header,
it just means it's a custom header,
the browser probably doesn't
know what to do with it.
The Nginx probably doesn't know what to do
with it, the one you'll see most commonly,
and let's pull up our web page and see
if we can see a custom header in there.
So I'm on my web page,
we can pull up your own, and
I'm gonna refresh this page,
I'm gonna look at the Network tab,
and let's check out the request headers.
Given the host, the user agents, and
we have under the response headers,
we this X powered by,
cuz powered by is not an official HP
header that browser know to deal with.
Express just tag this on
to let you know that, hey,
the application of
a serving is using Express.
So if you need to send custom
one-time data using an X
header is a good way of doing it.
>> Jem Young: The response
looks a little different, and
the headers will be a little different.
The request header is all about,
who I am as a browser?
Where am I going?
Where am I trying to get to?
What sort of technology
incentives I support?
The response headers is what the server is
sending you so that let's say the content
is gzip encoded, the browser wouldn't
know that unless we set a header that
says the content type is encoded as gzip,
it wouldn't know how to unpack that.
So the response headers are just as
important as the request headers.